data/help/skills/block.md, before:

# Skill: Block (str/vit)
The block skill allows the character to effectively use a shield in battle thus
reducing the amount of damage taken over time. Note that some passive
enhancements and actions can be used with two handed weapons, but at a penalty.

The following passive enhancements are unlocked at the indicated level:

- [5]   Deflect  - Increases the chance of deflecting a blow if wearing a shield
                   or using a two-handed weapon. Chance increases with skill
                   level.
- [40]  Defender - Decrease all damage by 5-15% when wearing a shield (damage
                   reduction is based on skill level).
- [100] Reflect  - Chance to completely nullify an incoming attack and reflect
                   the damage back onto the attacker.

The following cooldown actions are added at the given levels:

- [10]  Bash         - Bash the opponent with your shield dealing 50% attack
                       damage with a chance to stun them for a number of rounds.
- [25]  Topple       - Deflect a blow from the opponent toppling them to the
                       ground, this leaves the opponent prone for one round.
- [65]  Throat Smash - Turning her shield sideways the character chops it into
                       the opponent's throat dealing a full attack and silencing
                       the opponent for a number of turns.
- [100] Pin          - Dashing forward the character pins an opponent to a
                       nearby wall or surface for a number of turns. While
                       pinned the opponent is unable to take any actions but can
                       still be attacked and take damage.

Commit message:

Partial One-handed Impleemntation
- Major changes to the battle system to incorporate passives
- Added one-handed passives: parry, second attack, third attack, battle-trance
- Added new higher level test dummies to the contego testing grounds
- New admin command: set (for setting params on game objects)
- Started fleshing out cooldown commands
- Players now have global cooldown clock
- Basic implementation of flurry, the first one-handed cooldown

data/help/skills/block.md, after:

# Skill: Block (str/vit)
The block skill allows the character to effectively use a shield in battle thus
reducing the amount of damage taken over time. Note that some passive
enhancements and actions can be used with two handed weapons, but at a penalty.

## Passive Enhancements:

- [5] Deflect
  When wearing a shield you have a chance of deflecting blows and taking
  significantly less damage. The chance increases with skill level.

- [40] Defender
  Decreases all incoming physical damage when wearing a shield. The amount of
  the reduction scales with skill level.

- [100] Reflect
  When wearing a shield you have a chance of completely nullifying an incoming
  attack and reflecting the damage back on the attacker.

## Cool Down Actions:

- [10] Bash
  Bash the opponent with your shield dealing 50% attack damage with a chance to
  stun them for a number of rounds.

- [25] Topple
  Deflect a blow from the opponent toppling them to the ground, this leaves the
  opponent prone for one round.

- [65] Throat Smash
  Turning her shield sideways the character chops it into the opponent's throat
  dealing a full attack and silencing the opponent for a number of turns.

- [100] Pin
  Dashing forward the character pins an opponent to a nearby wall or surface for
  a number of turns. While pinned the opponent is unable to take any actions but
  can still be attacked and take damage.
