data/help/skills/one-handed.md, before:

# Skill: One-handed (str/spe)
The one-handed skill allows the character to effectively battle using weapons
that require a single hand to wield.

## Passive Enhancements:

- [15] Parry
  Chance of parrying and evading an attack entirely. The chance increases with
  skill level.
- [40] Second Attack
  You make two attacks per round in battle.
- [80] Third Attack
  Make three attacks per round in battle.
- [100] Battle Trance
  Each attack receives a 10% bonus to hit and damage

## Cool Down Actions:

- [5] Flurry (GCD, 2% SP)
  A savage flurry of blows dealing damage with potency 150.
- [35] Slash (GCD, 4% SP)
  Attacks the target with savage slash with potency 150. Combo: Flurry, increase
  potency to 250.
- [65] Riposte (GCD, 6% SP)     
  Make a quick sudden attack dealing with potency 150. Combo: Slash, increases
  potency to 350.
- [95] Coup de grace (120s, 10% SP)
  A devastating attack with potency 1000 when an opponent has less than 30%
  health. Cannot be used if the target has more than 30% health.

Commit message:

Fleshed out help pages for cooldowns.

data/help/skills/one-handed.md, after:

# Skill: One-handed (str/spe)
The one-handed skill allows the character to effectively battle using weapons
that require a single hand to wield.

## Passive Enhancements:

- [15] Parry
  Chance of parrying and evading an attack entirely. The chance increases with
  skill level.
- [40] Second Attack
  You make two attacks per round in battle.
- [80] Third Attack
  Make three attacks per round in battle.
- [100] Battle Trance
  Each attack receives a 10% bonus to hit and damage

## Cool Down Actions:

- [5] Flurry of Blows (help: `flurry`, GCD, 2% SP)
  A savage flurry of blows dealing damage with potency 150.
- [35] `Slash` (GCD, 4% SP)
  Attacks the target with savage slash with potency 150. Combo: Flurry, increase
  potency to 250.
- [65] `Riposte` (GCD, 6% SP)     
  Make a quick sudden attack dealing with potency 150. Combo: Slash, increases
  potency to 350.
- [95] Coup de grace (help: `coup`, 120s, 10% SP)
  A devastating attack with potency 1000. Can only be executed when the target
  is below 30% of its maximum health.
