game/skills/alteration/help/alteration.help.md, before:

@name(alteration)
@author(Ryan Sandor Richards)

# Skill: Alteration (mag/str)
The `alteration` skill allows players to cast spells that alter the state of
physical reality. Primarily a utility skill, alteration grants cooldowns and
passives that work well for characters of any focus.

Considered by mages as the "first school" of magic, alteration is the most
studied field of magic known in the realms. Until recently those who wished
to truly master the art need look no further than the Library at Kaldonia.
Unfortunately the library seems to have disappeared without a trace nearly
a century ago... Taking with it the ultimate tomes on many of the most
powerful alteration magics.

## Passive Enhancements:
The following passive enhancements are granted by the alteration skill at the
given skill levels:

* [Level 65] `Aspect of Selune`
  The character recovers MP 25-75% faster (enhanced recovery scales with skill
  level).

## Cooldown Actions:
The following spells are granted by the alteration skill at the given skill
levels:

* [Level 5] `Armor` (30s cooldown, 8s cast, 15% MP)
  The character is granted the `armored` buff for 30 to 300 seconds. The buff
  grants the character the an AC bonus as if they were wearing an suit of
  heavy armor at 35% - 100% efficiency (both duration and efficiency scale
  with skill level).
* [Level 15] `Unlock` (15s cooldown, 4s cast, 5% MP)
  Unlocks a single lock of a level at or below the character's alteration skill
  level.
* [Level 25] `Giant Strength` (30s cooldown, 10s cast, 20% MP)
  The target is granted the `strengthened` buff for 20-120s. The buff grants a
  10-25% bonus to the strength ability score and an additional 10-50 potency
  damage for each attack.
* [Level 35] `Sphere of Resistance` (80s cooldown, 10s cast, 35% MP)
  The character is granted 1-4 stacks of the `impervious` buff for 30 to 180s.
  The each stack of the buff will nullify a magical attack and then be shed
  (number of stacks and duration scales with skill level).
* [Level 55] `Haste` (30s cooldown, 10s cast, 30% MP)
  The target is granted the `hasted` debuff for 20-120s. The buff allows the
  character an extra attack in battle and provides a 10-25% bonus to AC
  (AC bonus and duration scale with skill level).
* [Level 75] `Sequencer` (300s cooldown, 20s cast, 80% MP)
  The character stores 2-4 spells in reserve to be cast later. When the
  action is used again each of the spells stored will be cast in sequence at
  25% of the MP cost for each spell.
* [Level 85] `Seizure` (60s cooldown, 4s cast, 45% MP)
  The target is afflicted with the `paralyzed`, `blinded`, and `silenced`
  debuffs for 20s.

Commit message:

Changed alteration design
Removed sequencer and added truesight. Sequencer on second thought was way too powerful of a spell when used in combination with evocation spells like flamestrike (the 75% discount alone, not to mention the massive amounts of damage when stacking huge spells like that).

Further we really needed a way for characters to have the option of detecting invisible game entities. While this traditionally belongs in a divination school, there really isn't a place for a skill like that as of yet, so I decided alteration was the best bet (as it already had a focus on buffing).

game/skills/alteration/help/alteration.help.md, after:

@name(alteration)
@author(Ryan Sandor Richards)

# Skill: Alteration (mag/str)
The `alteration` skill allows players to cast spells that alter the state of
physical reality. Primarily a utility skill, alteration grants cooldowns and
passives that work well for characters of any focus.

Considered by mages as the "first school" of magic, alteration is the most
studied field of magic known in the realms. Until recently those who wished
to truly master the art need look no further than the Library at Kaldonia.
Unfortunately the library seems to have disappeared without a trace nearly
a century ago... Taking with it the ultimate tomes on many of the most
powerful alteration magics.

## Passive Enhancements:
The following passive enhancements are granted by the alteration skill at the
given skill levels:

* [Level 75] `Aspect of Selune`
  The character recovers MP 25-75% faster (enhanced recovery scales with skill
  level).

## Cooldown Actions:
The following spells are granted by the alteration skill at the given skill
levels:

* [Level 5] `Armor` (30s cooldown, 8s cast, 15% MP)
  The character is granted the `armored` buff for 30 to 300 seconds. The buff
  grants the character the an AC bonus as if they were wearing an suit of
  heavy armor at 35% - 100% efficiency (both duration and efficiency scale
  with skill level).
* [Level 15] `Unlock` (15s cooldown, 4s cast, 5% MP)
  Unlocks a single lock of a level at or below the character's alteration skill
  level.
* [Level 25] `Giant Strength` (30s cooldown, 10s cast, 20% MP)
  The target is granted the `strengthened` buff for 20-120s. The buff grants a
  10-25% bonus to the strength ability score and an additional 10-50 potency
  damage for each attack.
* [Level 35] `Truesight` (60s cooldown, 12s cast, 25% MP)
  The character gains the `truesight` buff for 20-240s (duration scales with
  skill level). While the buff is applied the character is capable of detecting
  and seeing objects, players, and mobiles that are under most forms of
  invisibility (a notable exception is the halfing's `vanished` racial buff).
* [Level 45] `Sphere of Resistance` (80s cooldown, 10s cast, 35% MP)
  The character is granted 1-4 stacks of the `impervious` buff for 30 to 180s.
  The each stack of the buff will nullify a magical attack and then be shed
  (number of stacks and duration scales with skill level).
* [Level 55] `Haste` (30s cooldown, 10s cast, 30% MP)
  The target is granted the `hasted` debuff for 20-120s. The buff allows the
  character an extra attack in battle and provides a 10-25% bonus to AC
  (AC bonus and duration scale with skill level).
* [Level 85] `Seizure` (60s cooldown, 4s cast, 45% MP)
  The target is afflicted with the `paralyzed`, `blinded`, and `silenced`
  debuffs for 20s.
